\# uki-profilify.1: man page for uki-profilify
\#
\# Copyright 2024 Fleuria
\# SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

.TH UKI-PROFILIFY 1 "16 December 2024"
.SH NAME
uki-profilify \- Multi-profile UKI creation helper

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY
\fBuki-profilify\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIkernel\fR [\fIinitramfs\fR]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uki-profilify
creates a multi-profile UKI using
.MR ukify 1
as specified by a TOML configuration file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--auto\fR
Set automatic generation mode (see
.BR CONFIGURATION ).

.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIconf\fR, \fB--config=\fIconf\fR
Use
.I conf
as the configuration file.

.TP
\fB-o\fR \fIfilepath\fR, \fB--output=\fIfilepath\fR
Save the resulting UKI file to
.IR filepath .

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help message and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
A default
.B uki-profilify
configuration file is stored as /etc/uki-profilify/\fIpreset\fR.toml, and is
used when
.I kernel
contains the substring
.I preset
and
.B --config
is not set. If
.I kernel
contains multiple valid
.I preset
substrings, the longest
.I preset
takes precedence. 

The configuration file is a TOML file with a table
.I uki
and an array of tables
.IR profiles .
.I profiles
specifies the profiles to be generated, while
.I uki
contains the command line arguments to be passed to
.MR ukify 1
when generating the complete UKI.

A profile in
.I profiles
may contain the metainformation fields
.I id
and
.I title
to be included in the contents of the
.B .profile
PE section. It can also contain a
.I sections
subtable containing the PE sections to be added to the profile; its entries
are directly passed as command line arguments to
.MR ukify 1 ,
thus the keys use the names of
.MR ukify 1 \'s
configuration options.

If
.I initramfs
is provided and differs from
.I uki.initrd
in the configuration, it will override
.I uki.initrd
when
.B -a
is not set. However, if
.B -a
is set,
.B uki-profilify
will not generate a UKI. This behaviour allows
.B uki-profilify
to work nicely with
.MR mkinitcpio 8 .

.SH EXAMPLES
Create a UKI for Arch Linux with default and fallback profiles, and save the
UKI to /efi/EFI/Arch/linux.efi:
.TP
.B Configuration: /etc/uki-profilify/linux.toml
.EX
[uki]
output = "/efi/EFI/Arch/linux.efi"
initrd = "/boot/initramfs-linux.img"
cmdline = "root=PARTLABEL=arch rw quiet splash"

[[profiles]]
id = "default"
title = "Boot using default options"
# first profile cannot have sections: see BUGS

[[profiles]]
id = "fallback"
title = "Boot using fallback initramfs"
[profiles.sections]
initrd = "/boot/initramfs-linux-fallback.img"
cmdline = "root=PARTLABEL=arch rw"
.EE
.TP
.B Invocation
.EX
# uki-profilify /boot/vmlinuz-linux
.EE
.IP
If using
.MR mkinitcpio 8
as the initramfs generator, the post hook will run
.B uki-profilify
automatically with
.B -a
set.

.SH BUGS
.B uki-profilify
will pass all entries in the
.I uki
and
.I profiles.sections
tables in the configuration
directly as command line arguments to
.MR ukify 1
without checking their validity. This lets
.B uki-profilify
handle options added in future versions of
.MR ukify 1 ,
but this may lead to errors if the keys are not valid options.

If using
.B uki-profilify
with the
.MR mkinitcpio 8
post hook, make sure that the files required for the UKI (eg the fallback
initrd) have all been generated when
.B uki-profilify
is run. In the example in
.BR EXAMPLES ,
this entails generating the fallback preset before the default preset:
.RS
PRESETS=('fallback' 'default')
.RE

As of systemd version 257,
.MR ukify 1
is coded as to not allow the first profile to have any sections.
If sections are provided for the first profile,
.B uki-profilify
will ignore them.

.SH SEE ALSO
.MR ukify 1

.SH AUTHORS
.MT fleuria@posteo.co
Fleuria
.ME
